# RVT

Rat Vocal Tracker 1.0

RVT1.0 Instructions:

1.	Go to https://github.com/moayedilab/RVT and download all files 

2.	Go to https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.7789946 to download the model

3.	Open the file ‘RVT1.0_deeplabcut_code.py’. The code is written to be run on Google Colab, but If you have a machine with a graphics card, you can modify the code and run it on your preferred IDE 

4.	If working in Google Colab, upload the file ‘VFTrack5.1-WPF-2022-10-15’ to your Google Drive

5.	Within the ‘VFTrack5.1-WPF-2022-10-15’ file:

  	a.	Change the parameters in the ‘config.yaml’ file as instructed in notes in the code
    
    b.	Put the clip you want to analyze in the ‘videos’ folder

6.	Change file paths in the ‘RVT1.0_deeplabcut_code.py’ code to specify your file locations

7.	Run the ‘RVT1.0_deeplabcut_code.py’ code. Note that if you are using RVT1.0 and do not wish to train your own model, skip the commands for training evaluating your model. This is noted in the code as well 

8.	Open the file ‘RVT1.0_final_code.py’ on your machine in your preferred IDE

9.	Change the parameters near the beginning of the code

    a.	outfile: location where you want output files to be placed
    
    b.	vid: file path for the video you want to analyze
    
    c.	h5: file path for the h5 file generated by deeplabcut in step 6 (found in ‘videos’ file within ‘VFTrack5.1-WPF-2022-10-15’) 

10.	Run the ‘RVT1.0_final_code.py’ code




You will now see that a number of files have been created in your outfile location 

•	‘[video]_with_lines.mp4’ is your clip with tracking lines for each arytenoid, midline, and right and left VF displacement printed on it 

•	‘[video]_plot_disp.png’, ‘[video]_plot_angle.png’, and ‘[video]_plot_velo.png’ are graphs of the VF displacement, arytenoid abduction angle, and VF velocity, respectively. Right side is in red, left side is in blue. All displacement measurements are in pixels, all angle measurements are in degrees 

•	‘[video]_disp_angle_velo.csv’ contains the data used to make the above graphs. This can be used to make better looking graphs 

•	‘[video]_sumstats.csv’ contains means and medians for each metric

•	‘[video]_rawdata_out.csv’ has some raw data from the program’s calculations 

We hope you find RVT1.0 helpful in your work!
